(upbeat music)
- So what are you drinking Dave?
- Oh, I'm drinking a hop devil from Victory.
- A deviled hop.
- Yeah, it's delicious.
- Not too adventurous though.
Didn't go digging deep.
- And how about you Nick?
- I'm drinking the Victory Vital IPA.
Now I wouldn't consider it vital.
(laughs)
But it's not bad.
I think I like the hop devil more.
- I'm sipping on a lime lacroi.
- A lime.
- Lacroi.
- So you go with the lacroi, not lacroi.
- I'm American.
I say lacroics.
- Croics.
- Which I've been informed recently.
This is referred to as vegan beer.
(laughs)
So,
electron.
- Electron.
- Yeah, I think it would be a good place to start.
Good cop, bad cop.
I mean, there's, they're coming in from two different,
starkly different angles.
How do you wanna, how do we wanna approach this?
- Well, I'd say first the hands on,
both you and Nick.
- No.
- Have the digi tacks.
- Digi tacks.
- Which we've talked about,
I think it was in the last episode of it.
'Cause it was just how kind of announced
around that point.
- So twinkle in our eyes.
- Now you guys have hands on experience.
And Nick, you even performed with it already.
So thoughts,
opinions, feedback,
criticisms, what do we got?
- A lot of criticisms, a lot of positives though.
I still want it to be stereo,
but it's not, it is what it is.
Worked out well live,
especially with the latest OS.
It seems pretty stable,
'cause for a while it seemed like they were getting it,
getting it under control still.
Which I get it,
and you've got to release a product.
Honestly, if I knew that the rhythm to bleed into that,
if I knew the rhythm mark two was coming out,
I still wanted the MIDI sequencing.
And once I found out the trigger conditions work
on the MIDI, I was like,
all right, I'm gonna do this,
'cause that would be awesome.
It would be nice and compact live,
but knowing the sampling was on the rhythm mark two
might have pushed me away from that a little.
Knowing like, oh I can sample on that.
That was another big reason the Digitack,
'cause it's super easy to get drum samples on it.
- Yeah, I feel like that was intentional.
- Yeah, oh yeah.
- I think it's why they kept all the mark two stuff
under wraps tightly,
until the Digitack was actually out and being sold.
But I mean, it's smart marketing I guess,
but yeah, there's some weird spill over there.
- Now you say it's not stereo,
does it not have effects built in?
- Oh yeah, it does, it's stereo out,
the sample engine's all mono.
So if you, the reverb and delay--
- Same as all you get.
Same as the real, yeah, you get the stereo out.
- Which is like, it sounds good.
The effects,
distill, like I wish that was a chorus
and some of the octetack stuff on there.
- What cooler?
- But you know, is it just the same delay reverb
as the rhythm, basically?
- Yeah, I don't think they changed anything.
They made it easier,
even how you have the high frequency and low frequency controls
on like the delay and the reverb.
They made it so,
I always forgot before on the rhythm,
I still do like,
I don't know what it's doing
until I hear the sound change.
Like if I turn down the high passes that moving it up or down,
like I don't,
maybe it's just me,
but on the Digitack,
it's like a picture.
So now it's just like,
oh, I'm cutting off the highs
and I know I'm doing that.
So that's kind of cool.
I'll be curious to see what they do
for the displays on the mark too.
I kind of hope they redo them to make it like the Digitack
'cause it's no LED and bigger,
but I wouldn't be surprised if they just upscaled it
to be like,
it's bigger now
and on a bigger screen,
the same old UI.
- Yeah, I feel like the Mark II's,
if you're an owner of a Mark I,
I don't think there's too much incentive
to get the Mark II's of any of them.
You know,
I guess if people don't know,
they announced the Mark II version
of the Octatrack finally,
the rhythm,
which is odd because it's pretty recent machine
and analog four.
But I guess if you're like coming into it fresh,
you're about to embark on one of these machines
for the first time.
It makes sense to wait for the Mark II
'cause they are in all ways better machines,
but it's hopefully marginal differences.
- Yeah.
- You know,
- They're probably,
they were running out of some parts
and they were like,
what can we do to refresh this
and accommodate for a new screen?
'Cause they probably ran out of the old ones
and they wanted to fix some things.
So it's like,
I don't know if they did it,
but it's not the Octatrack one especially is
like a little disappointing.
In comparison to what it could be
with some extra stuff like Overbridge or something.
I mean,
- I really want the rhythm overbridge.
- Yeah, premium overbridge.
Which I kind of like,
like some people were like,
oh, I don't like that they're charging money for it now,
but that also means like,
would you be happier if they just rolled it
into the overall price
and you were paying for it without ever knowing?
Like, I don't know.
I don't need the audio stuff from Overbridge.
- And the basic is free.
- Yeah, the basic one's free
and that just gives you the sound library transfer,
which big criticism of the Digitact,
please add the ability to export my work.
- Yeah. - 'Cause it's freaking me out a little.
And I want to back it up.
- Everything is kind of trapped in there.
- Yeah.
They don't have the saving functionality,
which that's cool that they stabilized it,
but that should be the next thing
is like, I really want to back my work up.
- That is one thing that I enjoyed
about the Pioneer Terraz SV1.
You can balance everything out.
Project, samples, anything that's on there,
you can bounce out to different ways.
You can even just export it to a USB drive
that you can plug right into the balance chain.
- Yeah, it's fine.
- I was really looking forward to an Octatrack Mark II,
but I don't see any reason to get one at this time.
You know, I'm still pretty content with the Terraz.
- Yeah, I feel like that's so close
to what it should be in some ways.
- I feel like if I was gonna get an Octatrack,
I would just get a used Mark I at this point
and save a dollar, you know, or a Digitact
and make do with that.
- Like that's the thing with the rhythm.
Like the four fell out of the market.
So now they're like going for 800 bucks,
which is half of what they cost.
And now it's like, you gotta,
so you're gonna pay twice as much to get the new one?
Like, oh no.
- There's a lot of competition right now.
I mean, beyond like the Pioneer shit,
there's all the new MPC stuff that's coming out,
you know, at the same time.
I feel like it's too late.
You know what I mean?
For a Mark II Octatrack right now.
- At least agreed with one that isn't really taking it
past the bar that the Mark I set, you know?
- It's a pretty old machine too.
And it's for them to have spent all this time
and this is the absolute most that they could add to it.
It's a little surprising.
- I can't believe they're not even adding
like the trick conditions that are found
in most of their machines now.
It's in A4, it's in the Digitact, it's in the rhythm.
And here comes Mark II Octa and it's still running
the same OS without the shit that any other
electron box has now.
It seems almost like it's considered
a standard electron feature is to have
these trick conditions in there.
- Now we talked about this in the past,
but do you think that they did this on purpose
to differentiate the machine so that there weren't
so many common features intentionally crippling
some things in order to be like,
well if you want this, you have to go with this machine.
- I'm saying, yeah, partially in some features, sure,
you know, with functionality but with shit
that is considered like a staple now.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Like parameter locks.
Like if they released an electron box
that didn't have parameter locks,
you'd be like, what the fuck?
- Right, yeah.
- And I feel like the trick conditions
have been integrated in almost every machine now
and it's considered just like part of the OS, you know?
And to have a new machine come out
and not have that in there, it's kind of weird.
I mean it's pure speculation.
But I can see them having like, you know,
if you want stereo sampling, oh you have to get Octo.
- Right, right.
- You can't find that with the rhythm or the digi
and you know, things like that make sense.
- They don't have one, like just super machine.
- No.
- That has absolutely every bell and whistle
and it costs $3,000.
- Right.
- Yeah, there's no like flagship
that's right now.
- Yeah, it's like they're like terrified to touch the OS
and to make any changes to it.
Who knows what the code base is like
and definitely they don't want to conflict
with other stuff but I bet you it would take them years
to make like ground up, do another Octo track
with all those features and then they would have to do it.
They would have to do something like the ER301.
They would have to do like an SDK
so you could have a plugin architecture.
Like that's what you would need to do
really satisfy people.
So someone could like make another effect
or make a change to it.
Like and that's a hell of a product that's almost like
it's like an environment, you know?
- Yeah.
- But that would be awesome though.
Like 'cause you know, as I've had the ER301
for a couple weeks now, the way you can chain stuff
and just if they had that ability in the Octo track
to just chain all these things
and make your own control over them
and like have a common point control,
different parameters and like a 10-uvert that essentially
like that would be unreal.
- Like a little Max MSP-ish thing if you did it the right way.
- Right.
I mean the problem though is anytime you open like an SDK
up to the public, there's the chance that someone's
gonna write something shitty or problematic
and it's difficult for them to be able to say,
"Well, we just gave people the tools to make something
and they fucked it up."
It's someone sits down and they're using one that has us
on there and they're just gonna go,
"Well, this electron gear is shit."
- Yeah.
- And there's no explanation going,
"Well, actually no, it's because someone did something
deviant by using the SDK that we gave them
by having a more closed system."
I don't agree with this,
I think it's an artificial limitation
that doesn't need to be there
but from like a sort of like business branding,
it wouldn't be the first company that's done that
in order to have like total death grip
on how their products are perceived.
- But like also 90% of people won't give a fuck
about that either.
- Right, exactly.
- I know, I know, I know.
- It just kinda, this is already too complicated.
You just made it like infinitely chainable
and I'm gonna get lost on it.
Like that's ER301, that's taking me a while
to get up to speed.
Like the interface makes sense
but it's like how you chain a VCA with an envelope
and like nest stuff to make sound
and have it trigger the normal way.
It takes like a little figuring out.
Like I just last night recorded the first stuff
into it figuring out like,
"Oh, this is how you use audio buffers and things."
There's like a language to it.
- So there's a ton of stuff just out of the box.
It doesn't seem like a limitation
that no one's really made anything for it yet.
- And it's not like the author track
is very user friendly to start.
- Right.
It was actually kind of vindicating.
There was a video I saw today at Surgeon.
It was at Schneider's laden or Schneider's Bureau
walking through his live set.
It's like 50 minutes long.
It's a Vimeo video.
And halfway through it, he's like,
I actually don't even like this Octa track
but it's the only thing that will do this looping trick.
And I used the headphone out to send like an audio pulse
to my modular and that's what clocks everything.
He's like, "I don't like this thing.
This is the only thing that does it."
And that is, it's like the only thing
that kind of scratches that itch for this
Uber box that lets you send some MIDI and some sequencing
and play a sample back.
- Sure.
- Which kind of doesn't want that live, you know?
But getting there is like kind of a pain in the ass.
- Yeah, I mean, they didn't fix that with this new one
which is disappointing.
- Right, so it's not like if they were to take
at that route that you're talking about,
it's not like they would be turning away people being like,
oh, this machine's too confusing.
- Now it's going to be like, yeah, it's already there.
If you jump into an Octa track,
you're making a commitment to learn how to navigate it
and do what you want to do and go back to the digit hack.
I've only basically like screwed around
with electronic stuff.
I've never had one before this, just sitting down.
I've maybe looked at the manual twice.
Everything is just super intuitive.
Basically no point have I had a roadblock where I go.
All this is confusing, this doesn't make sense.
I've been super impressed with how intuitive it is
given the electron sort of reputation
for being sort of a two sort of thing to get into.
- I feel like that reputation came along
with the Octa track.
- Yeah, 'cause before that--
- Oh, it's well deserved.
It's a well deserved reputation.
- Like they even said that DigiTax
is meant to be a throwback to the machine drum,
even though I don't understand that,
but that's what they said.
- Yeah, I don't get that either.
- And the machine drum was a fairly intuitive box.
You had your function key, everything was labeled.
Not too much menu diving.
- No, no, you're like one or two screens away
from pretty much everything.
But then once the Octa track came out
and the A4 and the rhythm things started getting
way more menu diving and more convoluted.
The Octa track is just on a level of that.
Isn't beat by anything else in their lineup.
It's just like their most complex product.
- Like so many people use it live.
So that's why they keep it like still--
- Yeah, it's still, it's still use it.
Blush responds like all these people.
- Sure.
It's like if you can figure out how to do
the one thing you wanna do with it,
that's all you need to learn.
- Yeah, you don't have to fuck with anything else.
Just like, okay, I figured this much out.
I'm just gonna focus on that.
I'm glad to hear that the DigiTax is
a little more intuitive 'cause I kinda missed that.
- Yeah, about the machine drum and even the mono machine.
Like I'm sad to see that there aren't
Mark IIs announced for those.
I would buy a Mark II mono machine and fucking heartbeat.
- Are those going for a ton now?
- Sorry to interrupt that note.
- Yeah, yeah they are.
Whenever they announce the price drop,
the electron, they used ones plummeted price-wise.
And there was like a three month period there
where you could get a mono machine or a machine drum
dirt cheap compared to what they would be new from electron.
And then when they announced that they were paying
discontinued, after that like three month sale period,
the prices of skyrocketed again.
It's hard to find a mono machine.
And if you do, it's usually a grand plus.
At least that I've seen, I don't know.
They might be going somewhere cheaper,
but I like to keep an eye on them
'cause it's something I kinda regret selling.
- And now there's like there are X of them.
They were not gonna be anymore.
And as you get older, some of them are gonna start failing.
Some of them are gonna start having problems.
So that number's just gonna go.
- Yeah, they service them either.
- How does that work as far as like,
do they have like an end of life type of process
for their machines?
- I don't know.
- Like softening things.
- Nothing that they announce to people,
but they do at a certain point just say like,
we're gonna stop.
We're selling these and we're gonna stop supporting them.
I don't, I would think if you bought a new mono machine
like three years ago, I would hope that they honor
the warranty still.
So those are only a year though on all their devices, I think.
- But they're not even making parts.
I mean, basically there's like,
Sintarga gonna have to like step up
and start making the parts for those.
- 'Cause I don't think, I think half of it's the screens too.
'Cause people used to sell like,
you could get green ones and people would do like aftermarket.
And I think they're just impossible to find now.
Screens always seem to be like the big limiting factor.
If you put a screen on your device like that,
you're gonna be screwed down the line
like 10 years if it breaks.
- Hopefully stuff like the Terraz doesn't have that problem
because it seems like people are gonna be making
full color touch screens forever.
There's gonna be at least someone out there.
- Screen on that thing is amazing.
- Yeah, nice. - So nice.
Makes me wonder why I don't see other manufacturers
utilizing screens like that now.
I mean, it's obviously, it's doable.
- Did they add this thing to dim it a little?
Okay, that was my only complaint
when the first time I saw you using it
like in a dark space, it's like, holy shit.
- I kinda keep it bright, but yeah,
you can dim the pads and all that stuff and screen.
- No, that's cool, yeah.
Yeah, I think that was like the second update or something
where they had that ability.
And I did it immediately.
Like I saw it in the patch notes
and as soon as I updated it was the first thing
I did was turn down the bright notes.
- Did you see that noise engineering mixer
that he's putting out that's kind of been quiet?
It's like a, it's called like zerist pola or something like that.
- I did, but I didn't look into it.
- It's like a three and it's got four knobs on it,
four switches and four jacks. - Yeah, so four channel.
- Five jacks, it's got a headphone out.
Each channel has a potentiometer and a mute switch
to the left of it, real simple.
And you can split the output,
use it as an attenuator or some,
it sums all to the fourth output mixer.
It's like 133 bucks for like an eight HP mixer
with like mute switches.
And that's like, I've gotta get that thing.
Like I'm gonna fit that into the performance case somehow.
- Yeah, wait, did you say eight HP?
- Yeah, yeah, it's just tiny.
- That's only a little bit bigger than that goes out to,
or what's the one with the mixer
that has the sliders and sports channel?
- Oh, the circuit abby that does that.
- Yeah. - They did the output one
with the lit sliders.
- Yeah, which I always had my eye on 'cause I was like,
oh, that's so cool, but like this sounds like one less channel,
but infinitely more functionality.
- Yeah, and it looks like it just looks so nice to use live
'cause I had that Pittsburgh one, which I sold,
which sounded great, but it wasn't,
even at home it was like a little too much.
It felt like a little version of this,
like a Mackey or something, and it's like,
I just, I don't need that for that much space in my modular.
- It sounded good, no beef with it or anything,
but it's just not what I want in the modular,
but that noise engineering one is like exactly it,
and it's got a headphone out on it.
- And you said you could split the output.
- You could split the output.
- Mm-hmm. - So does, I mean,
you can send it like left or right output.
- Oh, it's not stereo. - Okay.
- You can, every input has an output too,
so if you want to, you can break them out of the box.
- Oh, gosh, okay, okay, is there any way there?
Okay, is there any way to route the output
to more than one output?
Is it just like one sum or is there like AB?
- No, I think it's just one sum that's all mono.
That's the one downside, there's no stereo-ness to it.
- Gotcha.
- And also that, one that's sweet,
but 500 bucks is that Rebel technology Praga.
Have you seen that one where it's like two stereo
aux sends and returns, like five channel mixer
with clickless mutes and awesome.
And there's the aux knob, you twist it to the left
and it's the first one, you twist it to the right
and it's the second aux.
And it's like really clear, like mutes at the bottom
with lit switches, all clickless.
It's like 500 bucks, but it looks like pretty damn sweet.
- It's a little simpler.
- No, one went totally under my radar.
- It just came out recently, I think.
They have the kind of calm, he's looking like face-poles.
- Oh, yeah.
- They have like the, they have that one sequencer
like the stroygia or something like that.
- But yeah, it looks cool.
And it's kind of smaller than the Pittsburgh,
and that's my little mixer diversion.
Cause I saw that noise engineering one a few days ago.
It was like, oh shit, it kind of dropped it along
with the percido news, but kept it quiet.
I guess it's coming out soon.
It's like dirt cheap.
- You're calling it percido?
- Yeah, I've been calling it percido.
I didn't know, I didn't know which is correct.
- No idea.
- I like how we all come up with different ways
to pronounce noise engineering stuff all the time.
- Like I always did was like the one with the L.
Yeah, in that video.
- Yeah, like the, the locale like Dave always says,
"How do you say it?"
- Look, look, look, look, yeah.
- Yeah, look, yeah, it should always call.
- We just make up our own pronunciations
for noise engineering stuff.
- It's just an extra every time.
- The percido, percido looks fucking amazing.
It's available for pre-order on control mod I saw,
but I haven't pulled the trigger yet,
but I'm definitely keeping an eye on it.
Where would you put it though?
- I freed up space just for it.
- Oh, okay.
- I sold one of my BIAs.
- Really?
- Yeah, I have one now instead of two.
In preparation for it.
- Yeah.
- Because I like the BIAs, but I like the Lekeluk too.
So this thing looks like a mixture of the two.
- Yeah.
- You know what I mean?
It's like if you blended the BIA with the Lekel idea.
- Yeah, I mean, yeah.
- I don't know.
- Which is just an appealing sentence.
I mean, like that it looks amazing.
- So yeah, I have enough space for it now.
I'm gonna slap it in there right next to the Basilimus.
The demo vids for it show that it can be free running,
which is awesome.
You don't have to have the envelopes locked.
So you can let it drone basically.
You'll have CV functionality that you won't have
on the normal Lekeluk.
Like for example, you can CV the algorithm.
If you're using it as like a synth voice.
- That is my only complaint about that.
It's not being able to CV it.
- That was one of mine too.
When I was using it live, I was manually hitting the switch.
But I was like, man, it would be nice to be able to see.
- Well, the thing about the manual too is it
because it's a three state switch going from one to three.
You had to go through two, right?
That was the bummer.
I was like, oh, like, if I could even if it was just like
a knot or something in some way for me to get from one
to three. - That would be cool.
- But I mean, that's--
- Some way to scan through those models.
Like on a pot, that would have been awesome.
- It's slightly bigger than two BIAs, I think.
- So that by side.
- If I remember correctly.
It looks awesome.
I saw there was a few other new stuff from him.
- Well, you were telling me too about their,
like almost a utility analog VCO.
- Oh, that sync-a-terre.
- Yeah, that's the one.
I had totally missed that.
Like, I just never noticed it.
- I figured you dig this while I showed it to you.
- Yeah.
- Like right up your alley.
- Yeah, I got it last minute back in the summer.
Like I needed a small VCO.
- Oh, okay.
- That, you know, was a little unusual.
And it was hoping for, like, I was looking at noise modules
too, like I just wanted something that was compact
and able to do noise.
And I saw that thing had a noise mode on it
and quantizer and act as LFO and whole nine yards.
Had the super wave mode.
I was like, this thing pretty nice for HP.
- Yeah.
- Kind of pricey for a 4HP module.
You know what I mean?
- It's like three interlocks.
- It's doing a lot, though.
- Yeah.
- It's pretty versatile, pretty compact.
I dig it.
- I would say too, his shit never has like issues.
But I know of that.
- Not what I mean.
- It's always solid, yeah.
- Always solid.
It always works, like, no trickery.
- Is anybody telling him that we're just gushing endlessly
about his product?
Like, if he needs anyone to demo anything, wink, wink.
Or like, watch his car or watch his dog.
I mean, not too much other new stuff that caught my eye
recently, aside from that, except for the plonk.
- The, for me, it was the variation of the Turing machine.
- Oh, yeah.
- Yeah, see, I haven't even looked at it.
- Permutation.
- That fixed everything about the Turing machine
that kind of bugged me.
- Tell me about it.
- 'Cause the big thing is, it's built on the Turing machine,
but it has gate outs for everything
as opposed to like that pulses where you would have
just a subset and a couple of combinations.
This now has every step.
- Okay, so with every note on, it's generating a gate?
- Yes, at least it's--
- Is that correct?
- Yeah, every like clock it gets in,
it's gonna shit out a clock at the appropriate jack
based on the pattern.
- Exactly.
- And now you can tap in any of those
instead of just like one three pie,
or something like that.
- Yeah, the pulses combinations that they had.
'Cause there was like one four and seven
would give you, like, there was an and.
- Yeah.
- Like, it's cool.
But if you could build those, your own with logic,
that's even cooler.
- Right.
- Well, and also, right and save toggle is not CVable.
So you can send that a gate to do the right.
- Oh yeah, you can write the sequence
to the Turing machine instead of just like,
kind of give me something new and then lock it again.
- Right.
- Interesting.
And is this by the same people, or is this somebody else?
- It's by grayscale, but they got the,
at least the muffler wiggler thread,
states that they got like the blessing of whoever
made the Turing machine till I hear otherwise,
this is on the up and up as far as a legit,
you know, variation on Turing.
- Yeah, I think it's all open source anyway.
So I was just like, falling the license
and got the dudes okay.
- Yeah.
- Is it all DIY?
- I don't know.
- There's a premium.
- It's a good question.
'Cause I know grayscale does have a couple of kits,
but I think it's--
- So it's complete stuff, too.
- He does remember all of us building those
turns and all the expanders at one time.
That was a lot of work.
- Still missing.
- I do too, I truly regret selling that thing.
- It was a lot of work.
- But I mean, I don't think he's even decided
how big the panel's gonna be,
like where they're cutting off the function.
- Oh, okay, so it's still like very much
a work in progress?
- Yeah, I just wanna announce it.
- Okay.
- I wouldn't expect it anytime soon.
- I mean, I'd be wrong, but at least based on what,
interaction and thread was still designed,
but how big are we talking?
- I think the big one was going, I might be wrong,
I think the big one was gonna be 18.
And then the smaller one was gonna be like 12 or 14,
and then there was gonna be like a weird expansion thing
that was optional.
- I kind of use the voltage block
as a Turing machine in some ways.
Like, I feel that.
- You know what I mean?
I'll just pound a random sequence on one of the channels
until something I like,
and then I'll sometimes even like randomize that sequence.
You know what I mean?
- It's good random.
You can't like send it CV to generate new random,
but it is a handy source for randomness
when you need it in a pinch.
- Yeah, yeah.
- And if you feed the random into the varigate,
it's on the same bus,
it'll also randomize the voltage block.
So if you take like the trigger out from the end
on the varigate and put it in the freeze,
or in the random, it randomizes the voltage block settings too,
which some people don't like,
that it randomizes both, but it kind of like trickles down.
- So there's no way to turn that off?
- I don't think so.
You can randomize the voltage block by itself,
but if you randomize that varigate and it's on that bus,
it's gonna send that same signal to the voltage block.
- So you have mine on the same block now,
but I don't, I haven't updated to the version
of the voltage block firmware that like can recognize,
you know, the varigate yet.
And I'm concerned with it.
I don't really, I don't think I need that bus stuff.
I just patch it manually.
- That's all he fixes.
Even with it, I always patch it manually
'cause it's not reliable.
Doesn't always sync all the time.
- That's still kind of weird.
Is there any kind of rhyme or reason,
is there any pattern or is it just randomly?
- If you turn the module off and on again,
and most of the time it will then start to sync.
So something is locking up during the startup process
or some issues occurring.
But that being said, I almost sold the varigate
and I was like, I even had it on muffler, took it down.
And I'm super glad I didn't,
'cause I'm already using it a bunch
and it just does what it does.
There are things like mind shifts forward in time
when I move the slider when it's playing.
But I think that happens to a bunch of people.
We'll see if it gets fixed,
but either way it's kind of a beast.
- Right.
I mean, is that something you are changing
while you're playing live or do you have a lot?
- You're just not anymore.
- Yeah, I brought mine out on that mini tour.
Had the presets saved, you know what I mean?
But I didn't tweak much on the sliders.
I just kind of let it run.
- Yeah, I noticed if you tweak it live,
it could cause problems.
I would mute things on the fly.
That was about it.
I didn't really wanna mess with it too much
in the during performance.
- Just let it do its thing.
- Just want your stuff.
- Program to change patterns.
- That's it.
(upbeat music)
- Oh, some sort of brain-eating bacteria.
- Oh, that's the thing.
If you don't, you have to use distilled,
if you use tap water,
you can fuck yourself up with an eddy pot.
You have to use distilled water,
or tap water that was boiled that you let cool down.
But if you just take regular tap water or something,
you can definitely,
if there are those protodular,
whatever the fuck in the water,
you let that shit get in your brain.
It's similar to the stuff that kills people.
And swimming pool is now when they go in
and they get some water in their nose,
which is always terrifying.
- That is one of many reasons
why I don't enjoy swimming.
- No, I'm looking forward to going to the other side.
- No, yeah, I'm coming here.
- I don't know anything about what's gonna happen,
but I would be,
if they had a knife convention,
that was also right next to the, that would be the shit.
If you wanna try to play to that market,
like I would box a knife.
- I tell you what I went to the anime con last year,
and they had a fucking vape convention
on the opposite side of the con.
- Dude, this blueberry man.
- All you could smell was vape.
- And they're all staring at all these cosplayers,
like what, and we're all staring at these dudes
who are all chasing the fattest rips.
I'm like, what the fuck, man?
It was so bizarre.
- Also, it was like a shitload of different vape flavors,
all sort of like blending together.
- Oh yeah, they split the convention center.
- Did it smell like a swamp?
- Yeah, the smell just kind of lingered over,
even though it was like blocked off.
- You can't block that off, right?
- It was very bizarre, yeah.
You could just smell these different smells.
And I kept getting a whiff, I'm like, what the fuck?
And then I went up on that tunnel, you know what I mean?
The bridge, like on the second floor.
And you can see like both floors on the right floor.
I'm just seeing like, you know, anime con going crazy.
I look on the left and there's like these circles of people
blowing out all these clouds
and like demonstrating vaporizers
and talking about flavors of shit.
And I'm just like, what?
It's just an odd thing to partner with an anime con.
- Yeah, although I think it's a partnership,
I think it's just like coincidence.
'Cause I don't think no con partnered up
with the real estate flipper.
It was just a two thing that was scheduled that weekend, yeah.
- But I'm just lobbying for knife show.
- Absolutely.
- You can hear us at Schomburg, Illinois,
a hotel whose name I don't remember.
Good knife show in there.
- Absolutely.
And babe.
- I just found a bunch of my throwing stars
and that's probably why I thought I'm gonna work it.
(laughing)
- 'Cause those are so huge.
- Have you had any nerd household is complete
without a fucking sharp throwing option.
- You need something to throw that's kinda sharp.
- Can you throw it?
- You need your mall swords.
You need your shrukins.
- Battleaxe. - Your blow guns.
- Battleaxe.
- Crossbows.
- You know, I almost bought a battleaxe
at the last rent fair, but instead I bought a cape instead.
- Cool. - Yeah.
It's pretty, it's pretty, you've seen it.
- I've seen your cape, yeah.
I know how much that was.
- It's a nice fucking cape. - It's a nice fucking cape.
I would've got the cape and the battleaxe.
- Nah, I couldn't afford both.
- That's true. - That's rent fair.
- That's rent fair. - That makes tough choice.
It's a rent fair.
- I'm sure we hear the story of id Software
when you were making a doom.
They hit an old oak door in the place that they were renting.
And he just had battleaxes, just grabbing an axe
and throwing against this big oak door.
So I was like, oh, fucking chopped up.
- You can do that a rent fair.
And it's fun.
(laughing)
I mean, they have throwing stars and knives too,
at rent fair, but it's like,
you have fucking rent fair.
- Yeah. - If you have the option
to throw an axe, I'm gonna throw a fucking axe.
- Yes.
- Fuck, what were we talking about?
- Not a gong. - Not a gong.
- Yes.
- Would she get a booth?
- For axe though.
We could ask people to bring,
like their junk gear, shit that's broke.
- Oh yeah. - You know?
Set that up, throw your axe at gear.
- Got an old electric car. - You go to the electric car.
- You're sick of, throw a fucking axe at it.
- You have a question. - Yeah, and old fuck.
(laughing)
- No, that was good.
- Yeah, it would be cool if there was a room dedicated
just for people who were showing off their shit
and, you know, jammin'.
- So that one dude brought that TTSH
that he had like just built. - Oh yeah, yeah.
- And like, he walked away and we were like,
ooh, don't mind if I do.
(laughing)
And we just, 'cause they got built in speakers too
and they got pretty loud and we just made an obnoxious
fucking noise patch on it.
And then we walked away and just let it drone on.
- Until the dude came back.
- You called it great.
- I was impressed by the sound coming out of that thing.
Tiny speakers, big sound.
- Yeah.
(laughing)
- It was cool.
They're kind of un-obtanium now, but yeah.
- Yeah, those kids are fucking sweet.
- Yeah.
- He was selling that one, I think.
- No, I think he built two of them
and he had one for sale.
I guess the cover of the cost of building
the other one type of thing,
but it was like, I think you saw it for like 32,
something like that.
- Yeah, he probably just likes that now.
- Really?
- Oh yeah, there's stuff.
- Yeah, it's not, you can get a lot of money
for those now.
- Wow.
- Especially with like we were talking about last week,
the vintage stuff kind of going through the ceiling.
Like, those orbs are really expensive now.
The TTSH is kind of like,
wow, this one might not break for another fucking 15 years.
You know, I would take that over a regular one.
- Yeah.
- Smaller too.
- So did they just stop building those boards
or something?
Like what?
- You guys can build them.
- Because they at Thonk still has a rare parts kit for them.
That's just like, here's all the hard stuff.
You just have to get the PCB, the enclosure or whatever.
Inclosures sounds like it would be real.
Like that would be, that'd be hell of a project.
- If you have access to like CNC machine,
might not be too bad.
- So wait, what else is on the list?
You don't even mean a list?
- Yeah, what are you, you're excited about it.
You're gonna get some plonk action, right?
- Yeah.
- I'm kind of excited to check that out.
- Plonk is definitely on my list, yeah.
In fact, I sold my elements over it.
- Which is right next to me.
- Yeah, I have to box it up and ship it.
Yeah, I don't know, I like elements,
but the thought that I could fit two plonks
in the space of like one elements
and probably get the same results.
I don't know, it's definitely peeling me.
And I just, I'm pretty intelligel heavy setup already,
you know?
I think the plonk is real peeling,
and especially for live being able to save your setup.
You know what I mean?
I hate to use the word presets,
but you know, I could have different sounds saved
that I could recall live, and that's nice, you know what I mean?
- You looked into this more than I have,
so I looked at it and I was like,
it's a modeling percussive elements,
but there's no direct envelope control
of like attack into end.
It doesn't look like it has it on the panel,
or maybe I'm missing something.
- It has assignable.
- Oh, so it's not knobs.
- There's knobs, it's just they're assignable.
- Kind of like the monitor.
- It's on the rain making.
- Exactly.
- Okay, so as you go to that,
you still have that kind of control.
- Yep, you can assign different shit.
There is a model of unit two, yeah.
- So models of unit.
- Oh, that's cool.
- Yeah, okay.
- And the elements had one too, like just depending,
like you had your gate input and your strength input,
which was like velocity type of control.
Depends on how you hit the envelope.
- Right.
- But like whereas the elements has everything
spread out real nice for you on the panel.
- Yeah, yeah.
- And has a knob and a tennewater for everything
and input, you have to pick and choose.
- From what I gather,
you have a lot of options on the plonk as well.
It's just you're gonna have to do a little bit of assigning
and menu diving to get there.
- Okay.
- Which I hate, but.
- But can you set it as a preset then?
And then recall that.
I mean, is that how it's gonna work?
- Yes.
That is what is appealing to me.
'Cause like I can fiddle around on elements forever.
And you know, and I do every time I play with it,
it'd be nice to be able to save that type of setup.
- Gotcha.
- You know what I mean?
- Yeah, I'm gonna be able to do it live.
- Also it has the random functions, which is interesting.
You know, if you just want a crazy fucking percussion,
I don't know if you can adjust what you want
the randomness to go towards.
Like you came with the Rainmaker, that would be nice
if you can scale it back a bit instead of just having it
like full on random, but just the fact that that's there
is nice.
Richard Divine did a couple videos showing it
and full Richard Divine fashion.
And it's definitely like interesting to see it being used
as like a glitch percussion generator.
You know what I mean?
Instead of just like your standard physical modeling bongo.
- Is it like a tight go or whatever that is?
- No, is that a Solonix thing too?
Or is that--
- Nope, separate.
- Okay, this is out.
- Not some of my knowledge, but maybe he's,
he did something in the background,
but just for the no, it's just intelligible in that AAS.
- Oh, right, that's who it is.
It's where the AAS.
- Yeah, but I would say that the module,
which should not be named, is that sound quality on that.
It's fucking ridiculous.
Like it's really good.
- I was impressed with that.
Like immediately I fucked with the pitch shifter
and listened to the sound quality and stereo and shit.
And I was just like, yeah.
I was like, that's what I was looking for right there.
- Compared to the Echo Phone, for instance,
it's a completely different world.
- Yeah, Plunk has me excited because,
I don't know, every few months I get on this kick
where I'm sick of everything that I have
that make drums with, you know what I mean?
- Yeah, yeah.
- And I always like look for a new drum machine
or a new drum model, because it's a never ending search for me.
And put the Plunk and then the,
that noise engineering, Perkido,
- Yeah, yeah.
- Both have my attention.
- That's a nice thing, but the 301,
'cause it's like the antithesis of that,
it's like infinitely, like ultra menu diving.
But you can make these quick save states really easy.
So it's like, oh, just bring up the last thing I'm working on.
It asks you, like, you want me to bring up
the last thing you're working on?
You're like, yep, just kinda, I know what that is right now.
So I think after I save up a few chains,
it'll be like, I'll get these instruments.
And the cool thing, he added the ability to screenshot,
which is nice, it just outputs like a PNG file
into this folder, so now people can finally be like,
oh, I did this and it made this bug,
or here's my chain of stuff,
and you can just share them that way,
and be like, just do this and it'll make this,
'cause that kind of enables the ability to share things
a little more easily, 'cause they're all just like a Lua,
Lua file, it's like that Mac, like heavy format for,
yeah, it's like, essentially a programming scripting language
that all the chains are made in, so you can,
they're really small and you can trade them with people.
- Oh, that's cool.
But one thing to the point, I saw it was kind of sad,
the Valhalla Sean Costello just said he won't do any effects
for them, he's kind of like claiming loyalty to the ZDSP,
which I understand, like that's completely respectable,
and he's like, I have my head around the FV1 spin processor
now, like I know how to make things for that,
like your format is something else I'd have to learn
and go whole other SDK and stick with them,
'cause they've treated me good.
And I was like, all right, I respect that.
And he was pretty open when he was talking about
developing the halls of Valhalla for ZDSP
and talking about the problems he was overcoming
'cause there's crazy limitations of it.
- Oh yeah, there's like 128--
- There's like 128-- - There's like 128--
- Instructions, or there's a lot of instructions
but there's 128 Macs, but it's a ridiculous number
of limitations, it's really interesting
that he was able to pull crazy shit out of it
with those limitations, but that wasn't overnight.
- Especially when you wanna uphold
like what's a very high quality brand at this point.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Like this shit, you know.
It's the shit, as far as plug-ins for Reverb and all that.
Like, just having a master.
- I got all those cards, even shimmer.
I never use anything except the halls of the hall
and I didn't know nothing, like it's so weird.
- That reminds me actually.
Summer name.
- Oh yeah.
- There was like nothing, it happened.
- Oh yeah, it happened.
The only thing that was announced was the Eventide
modules and-- - And the play.
- Yeah, and I was--
- 500 millisecond delay.
- And I was very disappointed that it wasn't
like an Eventide space module, you know what I mean?
Which I would probably buy in a heartbeat.
- It was an odd offering for their first module
to put out like that delay, which isn't going to excite
people, especially when people know like that space pedal,
it's amazing, you know, people use it live.
Make a patched out version like that guy did DIY style
and you would sell quite a few of them, you know?
Like that would be as popular as a ZDSP I would think.
- Oh yeah, yeah.
- Especially if they gave you some ability to switch
the algorithm to go from like reverb to a pitch shifting
or something like that.
So it's probably just they're not familiar
with the market as much as we are.
- Like a big instrument.
- And they're probably like putting their feet
in the water a little, not doing it maybe, yeah.
- I don't know, the natural thing would be for them
to do the space with each nine.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Here's this version, but they're probably scared
of the power requirements.
Can we use an amp?
No, probably not, you know?
You're probably gonna put like most people
would need a new case or a new power supply
to like use another amp for something.
- Right.
- It might be a little trebidacious of that.
- Yeah, what else is on the list, Greg?
- That was it for gear and then I was just gonna
mention, I think that's it, yeah.
I was gonna mention the soundtracks.
- Oh yeah, yeah.
Kind of wanted to talk about soundtracks for a minute.
- Well, soundtracks.
- So here's the thing.
I went and saw Dunkirk two nights ago, right?
- Oh, okay.
- Yeah, which the sound was fucking amazing for.
I enjoyed the soundtrack, it was like very low key.
You know what I mean?
- Was that also Hans Zimmer?
- I don't know, but it sounded like it
'cause it reminded me of certain parts
of the Dark Knight soundtrack.
Like there was a lot of strings droning in the background,
very slow, just building suspense and tension.
And all the sounds of like the guns and the planes
and everything was amazing.
But before the movie started,
there was a Blade Runner 2049, right?
- Oh yeah.
- Okay.
I've been trying to avoid everything and anything
having to do with the new Blade Runner.
'Cause I didn't wanna spoil it.
I didn't wanna build up hype for myself.
You know what I mean?
- I'm just gonna go see it.
- I need to know any piece of information about it.
- Like I'm already sold.
- Yeah, well I'm not sold.
- I'm gonna go see it.
- I'm gonna see it.
But I had like no expectations that I'd enjoy it.
You know what I mean?
Like fair enough.
- Fair enough.
- I fucking love Blade Runner.
- Yeah, which is expected.
And it does have Harrison Ford back in it.
And like, I think that's a great idea.
But like everything that he has done
and every role that he has revisited
has been kind of weak over the last--
- It's Han Solo.
- It's pretty good.
- It's Han Solo, Richard was pretty good.
- It was okay.
- It wasn't as bad as his Indiana Jones Richard.
- It wasn't nearly as bad as he was last.
- Last one.
I don't really want to.
- Wait, the Crystal Skull?
- I didn't see the Crystal Skull one.
- Yeah, it's pretty bad.
And I don't know.
I just felt like his Han Solo was kind of--
- I liked that though.
- Kind of phoned in also.
So when I heard that he was gonna be
in the new Blade Runner again,
I'm like, yes, I want Harrison Ford in Blade Runner.
It just wouldn't be Blade Runner without him.
But at the same time,
I'm like, I don't want to see fucking Harrison Ford
phoning it in because in my opinion,
the original Blade Runner is like one of his best
fucking performances of all time,
aside from Raiders of the Last Dark.
- That is fucking Harrison Ford.
You know, when I think of him,
I think those two fucking movies.
- I don't want to know anything about this.
I'm going as cold as possible.
- That's the thing in the trailer
they kind of touched on that already.
I'm sitting there ready to watch Don Kirk and all of a sudden,
I recognize the aesthetic immediately.
- Was there like, oh, this looks like
this is gonna be a fucking Blade Runner trailer.
And then it was and I heard the sound.
- Is it Van Jealous?
Is it Van Jealous?
Don't I get in?
- That's where I was coming to.
There is definitely like a redone,
Vangelis score.
- Okay.
- Like throughout the trailer, I'm like, oh shit,
this sounds like Vangelis did the soundtrack.
You know, and I got pumped and I came home
and I looked into it.
It's actually not Vangelis.
- It is, and I'm probably gonna say this all wrong,
Johan Johansson.
- He does like ambient stuff.
He played at the Rex for people in Pittsburgh.
- I'm sure listening.
- Yeah, a couple years ago, it was astounding.
Like, his music is amazing.
- I will say that part of the trailer I saw,
I was like, oh, the sound, like it sounds like a fucking C.S.E.
going nuts right now.
- Yeah, yeah.
I would have bet money that it was Vangelis.
But apparently it's not, it's him.
- Oh, that's super exciting.
'Cause I like you fan of his, yeah.
- Yeah, that's why I wanted to touch upon it here,
even though it's a little off track.
But yeah, I was like kind of pumped for it
because he does good work.
- Yeah.
- And so once I found that out, I did some digging
and he said like he has given a lot of props to Vangelis
on the original score and wanted to keep, you know,
what he created there like intact,
but also do his own thing with it.
So like, kind of cool.
Like I guess the two are buddies about it.
There's no like bad blood or anything.
Like so it's interesting.
I'm very interested to see his take on Blade Runner soundtrack.
Recently a couple movies that I've watched
happened to be scored by him
and the soundtrack's all stuck in my head, you know what I mean?
Like I don't know if you ever seen Sicario.
- No, I've heard that it was good.
- He does the soundtrack for it and it's fucking excellent.
- I like strings, you know what I mean?
Especially when it comes to cinema.
Like I just feel like it's, you know, it's a good instrument
that goes well with moving pictures.
All the time it helps build tension and shit.
And it's like all strings and like filthy fucking percussion
that like swells and builds in on top of it.
Like there's a song on Scarra soundtrack called The Beast.
And I've listened to it like prior 100 times
in the last month since I've seen the movie.
'Cause it's just, it's like,
I can't get it out of my fucking head.
And it's just, it's really excellent.
Really ominous, very ambient.
And then like there's this, you know,
like industrial percussion that builds on top of it
after a while and it just fills in real nice.
And it kind of reminded me of, you know,
like throbbing gristle and shit like that in some ways.
- Oh wow.
- And then I read an article while I was looking into him
doing the Blade Runner soundtrack and shit
that where he was talking about Sicario
and that he was heavily influenced
by a classic industrial, namely throbbing gristle.
- Oh, that's awesome.
- Yeah, so I was like, okay.
(laughing)
I like this dude.
He knows, like if anyone should be scoring Blade Runner
who isn't evangelist, I think would be him.
You know what I mean?
Like I think that's a good choice
and I'm curious to see what he does with it.
Kind of pumped for it now.
But yeah, he did Sicario, prisoners, arrival.
- Oh, oh.
- Which was also good.
I liked the sound and that one.
Also very tense and just like ambient throughout, you know what I mean?
- That movie was the shit, by the way.
- Yeah.
- I just watched it recently.
Like I was just watching a bunch of movies in the middle of the night
and like a few of them happened to be scored by him.
And I was like, okay.
And I didn't find that out until like after the fact, you know what I mean?
Like every time I watched a movie in soundtrack sticks with my head,
I always try to look it up afterwards.
Like I did that and a couple times I was like, oh, it's this guy again.
Like, you know what I mean?
It's like cool.
I'm not surprised.
- I'll say to piggyback off that to David Lynch
killing it with sound effects work for the new Twin Peaks.
- Absolutely.
- He's doing it himself.
- Yeah.
- Apparently he's doing all of that.
He still has Angelo but elementi helping with the scores and things.
You can tell all the parts that are like sound design-y,
drone-ier stuff.
He's crushing it.
- Oh, yeah.
- I mean, his eraser head.
- I was just going to say, his eraser head.
- His eraser head, yeah.
- The sounds is what made eraser head, in my opinion.
- Yeah.
- Not just the sound tracks, you know what I mean?
Like the background noises, but like just like the, I guess the folly work also.
Like you can tell he's the one that makes the sound effects sometimes for things and
it's just always like kind of loud.
You know what I mean?
Like it does, very interesting distorted sounds all the time.
Like episode eight.
- Oh, yeah.
- You know what I mean?
All the weird distorted sounds and like when the fucking miners are talking and their voices
are all like electrified and scrambled but still like coherent.
I'm like, that is a good effect.
- Yeah, or like in Blue Velvet when it's starting to zoom into the ground.
- Yeah, the ground and all the fucking worms and shit.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Yeah, I almost forgot about that part rewatching and I was like, oh right.
This is kind of like, he's always carried that thread through.
- Yeah, I love that scene.
- Yeah.
- Like the opening scene of the opening scene of Blue Velvet?
- Yes.
- I always forget that that happens.
- Yeah.
- Like the dude has like a heart attack or something.
- Uh huh.
- And then it's gardening as long.
That scene is always embedded in my scope.
- I forget that.
Like every time I'm always like, holy shit, that's how this fucking movie starts.
I totally forget that every time.
- 'Cause I grew up in Crafton.
You know what I mean?
And that opening scene always reminds me of like Crafton and when I'd be like all out
of my mind wandering the streets of Crafton, there's all these happy fucking families and
these old dudes watering their lawn and shit.
You know, like on the surface, you know, everything's the perfect fucking, you know,
suburban town and then like, you know.
- Underneath the dirt.
- Yeah.
- You know, where all the fucking bugs are out of sight.
- You were Crafton's Frank.
- Yes.
- Yeah, that was me.
Candy color, come on.
- I was sitting around in my wheelchair, I remember what those were called.
- Wonderful in Chasim modular.
- That's a good question.
- I don't want to know that.
- I don't even know what his gear is.
I mean, there's no famous piece of gear tied to him.
- Right.
- If he doesn't, he should have one.
- Yeah.
- He would love it.
- He probably just goes to Trent, the governor's studio.
- Probably everything there.
Trent, I'm looking to make a sound.
- You're reminding me.
- That reminds me of electricity.
Trent, can I come to New Orleans and play in your studio?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
(motor revving)
- This sweeps bring all the voltages to the ground plane.
(laughing)
- Oh, geez, Christ.
(groaning)
- Fuck.
- Oh, so many extra syllables.
(laughing)
- Oh, God.